[JC](/index.html) [Index](/index.html) [Projects](/projects.html) [Trips](/trips.html) [Notes](/notes.html) [Jacob](/about.html)

# Buckskin Gulch &amp; Paria Canyon

## Trip Log

### Summary

- Monsoon weather prevented the original plan of slot canyon backpacking. Had to improvise.
- Mon - Drive down, check out Paria River, impassable conditions, that amount of flow in a slot would be insanity.
- Tue - Clear weather, bikepack to hike Buckskin Gulch
- Wed - Hike Willis Creek
- Thu - Mountain bike Thunder Mountain Trail
- Fri - Drive home

### 2022-08-22 Monday

- Drive down. Forgot book, stop at thrift store in Kanab to get a paperback.
- At Paria Contact Station, guy says flow is highest he's ever seen from last night's rain. Recommends not going. I'm still on the fence.
- Drive to Lees Ferry CG. Ride bike from there up road past ranch and into lower Paria. Wander around for a while to check it out - river is knee deep chocolate milk, and FAST. Riverbanks were extremely gooey deep mud.
- Decide I'm not doing the original plan.

### 2022-08-23 Tuesday

- Drive back through Page to jct US-89/House Rock Rd, park there since BLM guy told me road was impassable due to flooding. Load up backpack and bike with 2 days water and supplies, strap to bike rack, ride to upper Buckskin Gulch TH.
- Hike via Buckskin to Wire Pass, continue past for quite a while, barefoot the whole way down - was excellent for mud but painful on rocks.
- Put shoes on and hike back up to Wire and out that way. Stomach and feet not feeling good. Unavoidable belly-deep "cesspool" crossing in Wire.
- Walk back to road, walk like 8 miles along road hoping to catch a ride but no dice.
- Collect bike and gear at Buckskin TH. Rodents have eaten much of the food. Ride just up the road to a big dirt camping area around a corner.
- Read book for a few hours. Didn't bring tent but it looks stormy, so set up tarp in an upside-down "7" shape, sleep.

### 2022-08-24 Wednesday

- Pack up and ride back to the car.
- Drive to Paria Contact Station, fill up on (gross-tasting) well-water.
- Drive a couple hours up through Cannonville UT, down a long dirt/sand road to Willis Creek TH, didn't dare drive any further with this car.
- Ride bike a few more miles to Bull Valley Gorge TH, stash bike. Hike a mile or so along the top of deep slot canyon until it's shallow enough to jump in. However, turns out the canyon requires technical gear and plus there's a NASTY pool of water to jump into right at the beginning. Decide not to.
- Ride bike back to Willis Creek TH, hike that instead. Walking through the wash is cool, on-and-off slots. Walk to the T with Sheep Creek, then turn back.
- Drive back along road, find a cool camping spot on a hill with an excellent view. Some wind and rain that night.

### 2022-08-25 Thursday

- Drive to Red Canyon CG, snag a FCFS spot.
- Head down to Thunder Mtn TH, bike along entire trail - this was an awesome ride. The red dirt and hoodoos made me surprised this isn't part of the national park.
- Ride back along the paved bike trail - wasn't as great as I had hoped, asphalt had tons of deep cracks that were uncomfortable to ride over.
- Relax at campground for a while, it got a little stormy in the afternoon.

### 2022-08-26 Friday

- Poor night sleep, leave for home at about 7.

## The Original Plan

### 2022-08-22 Monday

- Drive 7h to Paria Contact Station, pick up permit
- Drive 30 min to Wire Pass Trailhead, drop off tent and gear
- Drive 90 min to Lee's Ferry, parking here included with permit
- Camp @ Lee's Ferry Campground (FCFS) or in wilderness if necessary

### 2022-08-23 Tuesday

- Bike Stumpjumper and necessary gear 54 miles along US-89A, then House Rock Road to Wire Pass Trailhead, ascend 910m. Hide bike in desert.
- Camp @ Stateline Campground (FCFS) or in wilderness if necessary

### 2022-08-24 Wednesday

- Hike in via Wire Pass / Buckskin Gulch at least 14 miles to first "safe" campsite @ Paria River Confluence. First 7 miles may be dry

### 2022-08-25 Thursday

- Leave most gear at confluence, explore upper Paria Canyon (out and back) - 7 miles max one way
- Or, if experience sucks so far, delete this day and shift entire schedule up

### 2022-08-26 Friday

- Hike about 10-12 miles to around The Hole spring, explore side canyons with any extra time and energy

### 2022-08-27 Saturday

- Hike about 10-12 miles to around Bush Head Canyon, explore side canyons with any extra time and energy

### 2022-08-28 Sunday

- Hike to car at Lee's Ferry, about 10 miles
- Drive 2h to Wire Pass TH (via US-89 if wet, US-89A/House Rock Rd if dry), pick up stumpjumper
- Drive 7h home

## Background

Geology comments here
