---
date: 2022-07-04
title: Sawtooths, Boise
---


# Sawtooths and Boise

### TL;DR

- Backpacking loop around Hell Roaring, Immogene, Toxaway, Farley, McDonald lakes. A great time, excellent weather, tolerable bugs, and good company.
- Some car camping and "forced relaxation" in the mountains.
- Sightseeing in Boise - plenty of walking. Shopping, enjoying the excellent parks, and longing for their bike infrastructure.

### 2023-07-04 Tuesday

- Up at 4:30, pack up remaining gear, set off about 5:30.
- Uneventful (good) drive to lower Hell Roaring Lake TH. Left some greens in nested coolers with a big frozen gallon jug.
- Hike up to Immogene Lake and wandered around for a bit looking for a spot to camp. Finally found one on a peninsula next to a huge smooth chunk of rock at the shore.
- Walk around the lake, trying to be clever getting around a little pond I dunked my foot in it.
- Overall bugs were annoying but not unbearable. Slept poorly that night.

### 2023-07-05 Wednesday

- Casual morning, set some stuff out to dry on our big smooth rock. Chia coconut oatmeal for breakfast, and instacoffee.
- While we were talking, I glance behind A and see my sleeping quilt floating away in the water! I frantically take my pants off and wade out to grab it. Fortunately it didn't seem to absorb any water, and 15 mins in the sun later it was dry as a bone.
- Headed out up toward Sand Mountain. Rocky ascent with lots of switchbacks and a decent amount of snow near the top (of both passes.) Unfortunately nothing on the other sides to slide down. Downhill was nice and shallow.
- At Toxaway, we jumped in to cool off and complete a dare. Cold! Then A was feeling like a few more miles, so we kept going to a spot about 3 more miles down, above Farley Lake.
- Hang out and relax there, bugs manageable but not absent enough to lie down outside the tent. Freeze dried meals for dinner. A saw a tick on the outside of the tent so we did full check.
- Chipmunks had been fed in the past and were very interested in a handout.

### 2023-07-06 Thursday

- Slept not great not terrible. On the hike out, one river crossing, the 8 miles felt like 12 to me.
- Stopped by Red Fish Lake and happened to see a spot offering $2 5min showers. We jumped on that.
- Drive 90 mins along the winding and scenic ID-21 to Pine Flats CG. Ok area, there was a big burn on the opposite side of the river making things look really drastic. A huge group came and set up next to us but they weren't too loud.
- Hiked down to the nearby hot springs, the pool was only about 8in deep but the temp was just about right.
- Relax, read, snack at campground. No bugs(!!)

### 2023-07-07 Friday

- Granola for breakfast, left camp about 8. Long winding drive down to TH by Lucky Peak Reservoir.
- Hiked Cervidae Peak. Very steep and dry, but cool view.
- We heard there was a large population of disgustingly large mormon crickets, and we did see a few, but the main issue was the relentless gnat clouds at the top third.
- Lunch at Westside Drive-in, a classic 50s-style diner thing with an enormous menu. Burger, chicken sandwich, and milkshake.
- Met Nat at her apt, and met Mason the cute young dog, who I took for a walk while A showered.
- Went shopping at the very upscale The Village, gals got coffee and we went around the clothing stores.
- Went to fancy Albertsons, walked around a park, and stopped by winco for fresh ingreds for dinner.
- Drove up to Shafer Butte CG. No cars in camp area, you carry your gear over to the site. (Love it!) But oh no, someone has already set up at our reserved spot. No camp host or indication of restrictions or reservations to be seen. After some confusion they moved their stuff to another spot.
- Tacos (pinto beans and canned chicken heated with taco seasoning, cheese, lettuce, avocado, hot sauce) for dinner. Very good! Could maybe be made into a backpacking meal.
- A short walk along some Bogus Basin access roads, then in to bed.

### 2023-07-08 Saturday

- Toasted bagels with Rotello (or something) cheese. And coffee. Good breakfast! Head out early.
- Meet up with Nat, walk around the Farmers' Market where A got some kombucha.
- Walk around the nature park right across the river. So pleasant!
- Walk around the Botanical Gardens - very nice and tons of variety in plants, winding paths everywhere. Would be cool to have an event of some kind there.
- Lunch at Pie Hole, a cheap pizza joint downtown on a pedestrian street. Coated in stickers, good vibes but so-so pizza.
- Stop by Freak Alley real quick. Lots of commissioned spray paint art. Cool but nothing crazy.
- Get a couple donuts at Dk Donuts, an apparently famous shop.
- Get coffee at a shop in Hyde Park and walk around that neighborhood. Some interesting houses!
- Drop Nat off and Stop by Trader Joe's to get salads and burritos.
- Shower at the AirBNB, grab their two old beach cruisers, and ride over to the green belt. About 30s after we got there and started riding, one bike starts to lose a crank. The spindle bolt was loose, we walked over to a nearby bike shop to tighten it, but upon doing so we lost the fraction of a remaining thread on the bolt and that bike was done for good. Walked both back to the house.
- Ate salads by the river while we watched people float by on the Boise River, some obviously a little tipsy. We thought about doing it (sober), but tube rentals were $35 each!! No way!
- Opera in the park for a little bit, stop by Idaho Fish and Game fish viewing walk, then walk around Warm Springs Ave to look at the boujee houses.

### 2023-07-09 Sunday

- Ride the tandem bike along the Green Belt.
- Coffee with Nat downtown. Then walk around, by the Capitol Building. Stop by a flea / craft market thing.
- Walk around Edwards Greenhouse, then a so-so Boston shake at Fanci Freeze
- Drive home.
